>>REGINA MEREDITH:
John Burke has
stumbled upon some profound
information regarding
many of the sacred
sites around the world.
After spending years in
R&D in the seed industry,
John discovered that
the energetic output
of many of the
world's sacred sites
also served to charge
the indigenous seeds.
This translates to
greater yield of crops.
To his astonishment, he even
found ancient seed depositories
at key energetic locations on
sites, such as Avery, England.
These findings have opened up
a question as to whether or not
some of these sites
may have been designed
for just such
purposes in times when
there was a shortage of food.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You have a very interesting take
on what the ancient structures,
the ancient sites
around the world
may have also been used for, if
not in some cases, created for.
So let's start kind of at
the beginning with your--
the discovery of the
electrical and electromagnetic
emanations coming from these
incredible sacred sites
of the world.
>>JOHN BURKE: Well,
the beginning, for me,
was 1993, because this was
really an accidental discovery
using a magnetometer on the
stones at Avebury Henge,
and finding that there seemed
to be some sort of pattern
to the magnetic poles of
the stones themselves.
And that was enough to
intrigue us to spend
five weeks that summer--
my co-author Kai
Hallberg and myself--
in the field taking 1,000
measurements on 66 stones
to ultimately determine
that, sure enough,
of the hundreds of stones
that originally made up
this giant forerunner
of Stonehenge,
the 66 that remain literally
all have their north poles
pointed in the same direction.
And this can't be a
question of chance.
And furthermore, these
stones get larger
as you approach the entrance.
And it's not only true here
in Avebury but in Carnac,
France on a far
bigger scale, where
there's 11,000 stones
in kilometer-long rows.
And the importance about
the thing growing larger,
as it goes, is that it will
move electrified air ions along
through the air and end up
acting as a very low energy
supercollider, if you will.
It's the same principle that
a supercollider runs on.
And of course, they weren't
doing high energy physics
there, but what they were
doing is gathering these ions
in order to enhance the
performance of the seeds.
And this would do
that very efficiently.
>>REGINA: Well,
let's get into that.
Let's talk about some of
the sites around the world
that you visited, because
we don't have your slideshow
to show right now.
So there's some really
wonderful imagery in there.
But let's talk about
some of the sites
you've been to to measure
the electromagnetic outputs,
because a lot of people think of
these as more in new age terms.
Oh, sacred sites-- go.
You sit down.
You meditate.
But why?
Well, you can tell people why.
>>BURKE: Because
they're all based
on very special type
of geological ground
that does give off
electromagnetic,
and it doesn't so much
give it off as what
it does is it uses special types
of ground that already enhance
the natural electromagnetic
forces of the earth,
in particular the daily changes.
And then they build these
structures in such a way
that they further enhance up
to several hundred percent
these natural electrical and
magnetic fluctuations that
take place everywhere
around the world,
every day in the
hours before dawn.
That's the earth's
magnetic field changing,
and it changes most dramatically
in these pre-dawn hours.
>>REGINA: Which is interesting,
because throughout all
of the cultures
historically, that's
when the various masters, the
monks, the yogis, et cetera
go into their meditation.
>>BURKE: Precisely.
And this is a
question of where--
it's a simple matter of
physics called induction.
Whenever there is a
change in magnetic field,
it generates in an electrical
field in anything present
that will conduct electricity.
And clearly, the brain
conducts it very well.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
So you've been to
how many sites?
And how many sites have
you personally measured,
and also, how many sites
do you know of that
have been measured to have this?
And include the most
famous sites in the world.
>>BURKE: Well, I've
measured over 80 sites
between my partner and myself.
And then the French
sites I was referring
to were measured by a
Belgian engineer, who
came before me, Pierre Moreau.
He passed away a few years ago.
But he was an engineer.
He happened to choose
the same instruments,
and he spent his summer
vacation every year
for 33 years
studying these sites
and finding out
that in every case,
it's the oldest and
most densely populated
of megalithic
sites in the world,
probably, starting in 4800, BC.
And all of these
things were built where
there were these special--
>>REGINA: Carnac
you're referring to?
>>BURKE: Carnac, exactly.
Carnac.
And what he found was all of
the major structures at Carnac
were located where there were
these special geologically
generated energy gradients.
>>REGINA: Now, where your
work gets really interesting--
I'm sorry.
Did you have something
more you were going to say?
>>BURKE: No, just that then,
I, myself, have visited
Central America,
North America, Europe,
and one thing I always
like to emphasize
is that we Americans
tend to think
that to go visit
one of these sites,
you've got to get on a
plane and go overseas.
And the fact is that
with these rock chambers
we have in the Northeastern US
and the mounds that still exist
in the hundreds throughout
the central United States,
as well as certain vision
quest sites in the West, 2/3
of the American population
is within a few hours'
drive of one of these
type of structures.
And in fact, one
appendix of our book
lists them
alphabetically by state.
>>REGINA: Oh, very good.
That's good to know.
>>BURKE: And how to get there
and what their hours are,
et cetera.
And we have another
appendix, then,
that tells people how they
can get their own instruments,
and go out, and either confirm
or refute our measurements.
>>REGINA: And the overlay
here, which is so interesting,
is once you started
noticing this,
you put a whole
agricultural overlay
to this, which
really, everyone's
excited about your work, because
this isn't something that's
ordinarily thought of
in terms of Egyptology
and the study of Avebury,
Glastonbury, Stonehenge,
and so forth.
But tell us about how this
came together for you-- seeds--
and this particular energetic
dynamic of these sites.
>>BURKE: Sheer luck
is the short answer.
That's where I feel blessed
to have had this kind of luck.
I was working for a
company at the time that
uses these very weak
electron showers in the air,
actually, to improve
the production
of agricultural seed.
And we knew that
it would make it
more stress tolerance, and most
important, increase yields.
And that has been confirmed in
hundreds of third party tests,
including universities,
et cetera.
So I was in that
frame of mind, when
I stumbled onto these sites,
got interested in them,
and then began
reading up on them
and finding out
something very peculiar
that the chronology of these
sites, when you look at it,
repeatedly is that there was
a group of people undergoing
food pressure, a food crisis.
They needed desperately
to raise their yields,
because before 1000, BC,
fertilizer and crop rotation
were unknown everywhere
in the world.
And so they were
desperate for any way
to produce increased
food production,
and they start building these
enormous structures, which
are perfectly designed to
maximize these forces that we
know can improve
food production.
So then the next thing we were
tempted to do and started doing
was bringing the actual
seed to the actual sites
and seeing extremely dramatic
increases, because we
used the same old, if
you would, heirloom seeds
that were used by
the builders, which
are much weaker than
today's modern seed.
>>REGINA: Indigenous seed,
thousands of year old seed.
>>BURKE: Yeah.
Well, in the case, for example,
in the Northeast, we used--
it's seed that goes
back to 700, AD.
But it was the seed used by
the Native American builders
at the same time
period as the ones who
put up these structures.
And we've also done it
with beans and wheat, which
was the primary staple
in most of Europe,
and gotten anywhere
from modest increases
to, with the Indian seed
corn, in particular, though,
that across the board,
the results were
to double or triple
the yield of the seeds.
>>REGINA: Yes,
absolutely amazing
when you see the
photographs of what
happens in the seeds after being
on these ancient structures,
and for a relatively short
period of time, the exposure,
right?
>>BURKE: Just 20 to 70 minutes
has been more than enough.
>>REGINA: Absolutely amazing.
>>BURKE: That surprised us.
We thought we might have to
take hours or days, but it--
>>REGINA: Well, something's
just occurring to me
as we're talking.
Well, you know, we're
at CPAC, and we're
with some of the top
Egyptologists in the world,
I mean arguably.
>>BURKE: Literally.
>>REGINA: Literally.
And while it may not
be correct to say
that the pyramids of Giza
were developed simply
for enhanced seed
for the region,
it might very
easily be said that
whoever it was that was able
to help engineer these pyramids
and who have that knowledge--
I mean like Quetzalcoatl
and characters
throughout history that came
and taught indigenous peoples
about agriculture,
architecture, et
cetera in their
own myth and lore,
perhaps the very same
forces did teach,
have brought that knowledge
throughout history
to all these regions
of the world,
teaching people how to enhance
their own crops, how to--
yes.
>>BURKE: Well, the
best example of all
are these stone chambers, as
we call them in the Northeast,
that we did our own experiments
on and got these results, that
are called dolmens
in the old world.
And they're built in the
thousands from Ireland to India
over a 3,000-mile expanse
over a 6,000-year history.
>>REGINA: And they look kind
of like stone tables or--
>>BURKE: Sometimes.
And others like
beehive-shaped chambers, yes.
And the point was if you want
to argue that these things were
cultural, you have
to realize that there
was no single culture
dominating that period
for that length of time.
So that gave us all the
more reason to think,
perhaps, there's a
functional aspect
here behind these things.
Yes.
So in Egypt, Egypt also met
the profile, as it turned out,
of these construction of
the first massive pyramids
beginning when
there were starting
to be food crises on
hand, because the Nile was
no longer consistently
flooding and bringing
the fertilizing muck
up onto the soil.
And there were
famines that are still
detectable on the historic
record, if you will,
beginning to develop
as a result of that,
because when you don't have
some form of fertilizer,
the soil's exhausted in as
little as two to three years.
>>REGINA: And your population
is burgeoning, perhaps.
>>BURKE: Yes, exactly.
Where there's full
time agriculture,
there's always a
growing population.
So that deadly combination
eventually reaches a climax,
and it was right
at that time when
Imhotep, the most brilliant
Egyptian ever to live,
was called in by King
Djoser to start this crash
campaign of building
these giant pyramids,
because most of those giant ones
were built in 150-year period,
as if there was great
urgency to get them done.
And the argument that they
were built as tombs just
doesn't wash, because not only
has a body never been found,
but a pharaoh built
three of them.
And I don't think he
needed three tombs.
>>REGINA: And it doesn't wash
with any of the gentlemen
here at the conference at all.
>>BURKE: Exactly.
There seems to be unanimity
on that point here.
Now, Egypt gave me a hard time
for a long while, because you
can't do what we did, for
example, with the Mayan
pyramids at Tikal, where we
brought the seed to the top
and exposed them
to these energies
and got even more dramatic
improvements than I've
been mentioning.
And on top of that, we got to
see that there is a continuing
tradition with the Mayans.
They still bring their seed
to the top of pyramids,
but they bring them
to the wrong pyramids.
>>REGINA: Because
it's only lore,
and they don't
really understand.
They don't have necessarily
the instrumentation
to be able to see the output.
>>BURKE: Yes.
Somewhere along the
line, there was probably
a shaman or a priest, who
died at the wrong time
before he could pass
the knowledge along.
And all they have
left is the tradition.
But so the question was then,
what were the Egyptian pyramids
all about?
You can't carry
anything to the top.
But when you begin
looking at the geology
of the areas like
the Giza Plateau
and the whole West
Bank of the Nile,
the geology begins to make
a very strong suggestion
about them being possibly
about something else entirely.
>>REGINA: Because the geology
is very energy-saturated.
>>BURKE: Yes, because
the banks of the Nile
are the limestone aquifers.
And when the level of
the Nile rises and falls,
you've got a lot of water
passing through limestone,
which is known to produce
strong electric ground
current naturally.
Now, that's known to
physics, and we've
measured it ourselves in England
at Silbury Hill, the largest
hill in England.
So you've got a
good situation there
for a lot of ground charge,
and what's interesting
then is they chose to build
those giant pyramids out
of a type of limestone that
it was what was closest,
but at Giza, but not
necessarily at the other places.
But the type of limestone
they built for the core
was dolomite, which has
especially high metal content.
That's why it's
got a special name.
It's got I think 25%
manganese content.
And because of that, it
will conduct electricity
extremely well.
Then, they went to all that
trouble to go across the river
and get the Tora limestone,
which, granted, is whiter,
and it's prettier.
>>REGINA: Right, for the facing.
>>BURKE: Right.
Then they encase it in that, and
that the blocks, if you recall,
that they went to
so much trouble
that all these years
later, you can't
get a razor blade in between.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>BURKE: Well, that
is almost pure CaCO3.
It's almost-- there's
almost no metal in that,
so by comparison, it's a poor
conductor of electricity.
So you've got a similar
situation to an insulated wire.
All the negative energy
gathered in the ground
from the water running
through the limestone
concentrates at the top and this
wrapping of the Tora limestone
prevents it from leaking off.
And then finally,
at the top, it looks
like they would add either
metal or golden capstones.
And the thing is
that 50 days a year,
there's a Saharan wind called
the Khamsin blowing out
of the desert.
And it's extremely highly
positively charged.
And the very shape
of a pyramid will
concentrate the field lines of
the atmosphere at the point.
So we've got this
tremendous concentration
of negative charge at the
bottom, positive charge
at the top, and if that
becomes strong enough,
it'll so excite and electrify
the air, it will begin to glow.
And we get what we
call brush discharge.
Now, the important thing
about brush discharge
is, sure, it makes a very
impressive religious monument.
And awe is part of a
religious monument,
and that's possibly
one of the reasons.
But when there's
brush discharge,
it changes the
nitrogen in the air.
Regular nitrogen in
the air is common,
but it's useless to plants.
When it's ionized, as it
always is in brush discharge,
it's converted to nitrate,
which is the primary component
of fertilizer.
>>REGINA: Right, primary
nutrient in fertilizer.
Interesting.
>>BURKE: So what we
were looking at, then,
is at least 50
days a year, you've
got a fertilizing
wind blowing off
the pyramids that
just happens to occur
when the Nile is at its lowest.
And therefore, the ground
energy is at its strongest,
and the fields are exposed.
And they only started doing
that after they needed
the fertilizer, and then
they located those pyramids
downwind from the farms.
And as the situation
got more desperate,
they expanded the farmland
continually to the north.
And if you watch the
chronology of the pyramids,
each new one would be
planted further north.
>>REGINA: It makes
a lot of sense
that that had to have
been at least one,
if not the primary motivation
for a lot of these structures.
>>BURKE: Well, one
of the things I
like to think about as an
analogy on that subject
is to think about
ourselves today.
We're the same people
they were in the sense
that we have the same brain.
We just work in
different mediums.
The biggest structures in the
world today built by humankind
are undoubtedly
hydroelectric dams.
And why are we willing to go
to such mind-boggling effort
in building some of these dams?
Because we know we're going
to get a very physical return
in the form of
electricity, which
is the lifeblood of our
industrial civilization.
And by comparison, looking
into specialty structures
like the giant
pyramids, I wonder
if they weren't able to
mobilize a population to such
an extreme degree,
because they, too,
knew they were going to get an
absolutely physical reward back
in terms of fertility,
which is the lifeblood
of any agricultural
civilization.
>>REGINA: Makes sense.
And what's interesting, and
you and I talked about this off
camera a minute beforehand,
is we're at a time now,
where people are becoming--
people who are waking up,
anyway--
are becoming extremely concerned
about the quality of their food
supplies.
We're talking
about denuded land.
It's just chemical-enhanced,
irradiated, you name it.
So we're not looking
at whole foods anymore.
And just recently,
I stumbled across,
in one of the Waldorf
School Gardens, a man who
is building on one of the
largest Waldorf School
properties in the US,
building a perfect golden,
meaning proportioned,
pyramid, glass sides,
in which to actually--
I think it's a type of
polymer, some kind of plastic
that the sun passes
through with ease
and still allows for
the nutrient absorption
from the plants.
He's building a
perfect pyramid, and he
said the yields they're
getting out of these pyramids
are unbelievable.
>>BURKE: Yes.
That was very
entertaining to hear.
I've always wondered about that.
>>REGINA: I mean it seems like
that might be giving us hope
for how we can take
control of our own--
the fertility of our own food
supply back into our own hands.
You can make these
things yourself.
>>BURKE: Yeah, I
was unaware of that.
And I am unaware
of any mechanism
by which that could take place.
But data is data.
If he's doing that, then there--
>>REGINA: He's saying the
yields are up to three times
what you get by growing normally
in any other greenhouse.
>>BURKE: And that's
fascinating, then,
because the kind of yield
increases we saw out
of pyramids in South America,
these dolmen or stone chambers
in the Northeast ran
two to three times.
>>REGINA: It's amazing.
I mean not only are we getting
a fresh new view of sacred sites
and practical uses to
ancient civilizations here,
but we might be--
yes, go ahead.
>>BURKE: Yeah.
Well, I was going to say one
of the quotes in our book
is from one of the more famous
Native American religious
experts from the
University of Chicago.
And his statement that
we quote is simply
that for the Native
Americans, there
was no difference between the
physical and the spiritual,
and that, furthermore,
the chief motive,
the chief responsibility of
Native American religion,
at least in North America, was
to make the crops grow better.
>>REGINA: Well,
and we need to make
our crops grow better today.
>>BURKE: We've still
got the situation
of a continually growing
population and food
supply that's going to
be very hard to keep up
with that population.
>>REGINA: Well, this
ancient technology,
this wisdom that you've
stumbled across here,
this finding may
very well be part
of the salvation of our
being able to sustain
our own cultures in the future.
>>BURKE: We'd be particularly
happy to see it used in Africa,
especially sub-Saharan Africa,
because we make the biggest
differences where there are
the biggest stress guard--
the biggest stresses.
And that's where
the biggest need
is to find something
that can help
farmers increase their
yields under extremely
poor conditions.
And we have no patents
even pending in Africa.
We wouldn't be making
any money on this,
but the company
would love to see
that technology go that way.
It could be packed on the
back of a pickup truck,
driven from village
to village, and you
could treat an entire village's
seed in probably a day or two,
and move on.
>>REGINA: Absolutely fabulous.
Well, John, thank you so much.
It's the end of the conference.
Everybody's scrambling
to get home.
I thank you so much for taking
this bit of time with us.
>>BURKE: You're welcome.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: John
also assists others
in taking energy-sensitive
equipment out onto the land
to do their own research.
He says that one does not have
to go to the great pyramids
to do this, as there are ancient
sites all over the world,
including many in the US.
You can reach John or
pick up a copy of his book
by clicking on the link below.
Until next time, thanks
for watching CMN.